h1. JNI-TL

h3. C++ Java Native Interface Template Library

JNI-TL is a lightweight ะก++ library which facilitates using java objects from C++ code. It's written on top of standard Java Native Inteface 6.0 API (comes with including @<jni.h>@ header file) and merely comprises a few handy wrappers what makes using JNI API easier.
For further reading it's expected that reader is familiar with technical aspects of JNI API.

h3. Wrapping @jclass@ and @jobject@

Basic wrappers for @jclass@ and @jobject@ types are represented by corresponding @Class@ and @Object@ C++ classes.

bc.. JNIEnv *jenv; jclass jcls; jobject jobj;

Class clazz(jenv, jcls);
Object object(clazz, jobj);

h4. Accessing fields and methods

p. @Object@ type inherits @Class@ type and both of them leverage accessing Java object's or/and class's methods and fields. Objects of these classes basically are used as maps of fields and methods which might be accessed by their definitions.

bc.. object[<method>](<arguments>)

<value> = object[<field>]
object[<field>] = <value>

p. the same for @Class@ object

bc.. clazz[<method>](<arguments>)

<value> = clazz[<field>]
clazz[<field>] = <value>

p. Example:

bc.. jint value = object[Field<jint>("field_name")];
object[Field<jint>("field_name")] = value;

object[Method<jboolean>("equals", Args<jobject>("java.lang.Object")](object);

h4. Fields and methods definitions

The @Field@ definition is represented by the name its and type. And when @jobject@ type is a case object's class name is must.

bc.. <Specifier>::Field<jtype>("<field_name>")
<Specifier>::Field<jobject>("<field_name>", "<fully.qualified.field.class.name>")

p. Like @Field@ the @Method@ definition requires both name and type of returned value as well as object's class name when method returns @jobject@ type.

bc.. <Specifier>::Method<returned-jtype>("<method_name>", [, <arguments>])
<Specifier>::Method<jobject>("<method_name>"[, <arguments>], "<fully.qualified.returned.class.name>")

p. In addition method's arguments description must be defined whenever method has parameters to be passed to.
Args is a template with variadic count of template arguments. Each template argument's type defines the corresponding parameter's type passed to the method and all @jobject@ parameters requires corresponding object's class name to be passes into Args class constructor.

bc.. Args<[jtype|jobject,]...>([<fully.qualified.class.name.for.jobject.parameter>], ...)

p. There are several kind of @<field>s@ and @<method>s@ specified by prefix

|_/2. Field type |_/2. Description |_\2. Applicable to |
|_. @Class@ |_. @Object@ |
| @Class::Static::Field@   | Accessing class's static fields    | yes | yes |
| @Object::Static::Field@  | The same as @Class::Static::Field@ | yes | yes |
| @Object::Field@          | Accessing object's fields          | no  | yes |

|_/2. Method type |_/2. Description |_\2. Applicable to |
|_. @Class@  |_. @Object@ |
| @Class::Static::Method@  | Accessing class's static methods                          | yes | yes |
| @Class::Method@          | Accessing non-virtual object's methods of specified class | no  | yes |
| @Object::Static::Method@ | The same as @Class::Static::Method@                       | yes | yes |
| @Object::Method@         | Accessing object's methods                                | no  | yes |


h3. Wrapping @jarray@

Array template class wraps java built-in container object and is specified by type of array elements.

bc.. JNIEnv *jenv; jtypeArray jarr;

Array<jtype> array(jenv, jarr);

p. 

Access @Array@ elements

There is difference in accessing elements of @jobject@ type and elements of primitive types

* accessing jobject elements

bc.. Array<jstring> array(...);

jstring si = array[i];
array[i] = si;

p. 

* accessing all primitive elements

bc.. Array<jtype> array(...);
bool copyBack = false; # Tells whether copy all changes back to array

Array<jtype>::Elements elements = array.elements(copyBack);
jtype value = elements[i];
elements[i] = value;

elements.commit(); # Manually copy elements back to array

p. 

Writing elements back happens on @Array::Elements@ destructor and only when elements have been acquired with a raised copyBack flag or might be fired manually by calling @commit@ method on @Elements@ object.

* accessing all primitive elements with critical restrictions

bc.. Array<jtype>::Critical::Elements elements = array.critical(copyBack);
jtype value = elements[i];
elements[i] = value;

p. 

* accessing some @Region@ of primitive elements
Requesting @Region@ allows to access small amount of elements. An index counts elements in the range not from array beginning.

bc.. Array<jtype>::Region::Elements elements = array.region(Region(start, length), copyBack);
jtype value = elements[i];
elements[i] = value;

p. 

h3. Wrapping @jstring@

@String@ class allows to convert from @jstring@ to @std::string@ and vice versa.

bc.. JNIEnv *jenv; jstring jstr;

String string(jenv, jstr);
std::string stdstr = string;
jstr = String(jenv, "some native text");

h3. Exception handling

bc.. // TBI

p. 

h3. Using JNI-TL

# Add compilation of @jni_tl.cpp@ file into an appropriate project
# @#include <jni_tl.h>@ header file
# Whenever it's possible declare @using namespace JNI;@ since all classes are defined under this @namespace@.


h3. Best practice

h4. Performance optimization

Accessing @Fields@ or @Methods@ by subscript operator of @Class@ or @Object@ comprises two calls of JNI API functions:

# @GetFieldID/GetStaticFieldID/GetMethodID/GetStaticMethodID@
# @Get<jtype>Field/Set<jtype>Field/CallStatic<jtype>Method/Call<jtype>Method/CallNonvirtual<jtype>Method@

Example:

bc.. jenv->Set<jtype>Field(object, jenv->GetFieldID(clazz, "field_name", "field_signature"), <value>);

p. Suppose the field is accessed several times

bc.. for (int i = 0; i < N; ++i) {
  jenv->Set<jtype>Field(object, jenv->GetFieldID(clazz, "field_name", "field_signature"), <value>);
}

p. In this case code might be optimized

bc.. jfieldID fieldID = jenv->GetFieldID(clazz, "field_name", "field_signature");
for (int i = 0; i < N; ++i) {
  jenv->Set<jtype>Field(object, fieldID, <value>);
}

p. In the similar way might be optimized accesing to @Fields@ and @Methods@

bc.. Object::Field<jtype>::ID fieldID = clazz(Object::Field<jint>("field_name"));
for (int i = 0; i < N; ++i) {
  object[fieldID] = <value>;
}

p. 

h4. Wrapping Java object

The best way access Java object of some class is through a corresponding wrapper which implements necessary functionality and hides JNI specifics. In the most cases wrapper merely inherits JNI::Object and provides a bunch of necessary functions.
The next example shows how to make wrapper for a part of @java.lang.Integer@ java class and than use it.

bc.. #include "jni_tl.h"

using namespace JNI;

struct Integer : Object {

  Integer(const Env &env, jobject object = 0)
    : Object(Class("java.lang.Integer"), object) {

    MIN = (*this)[Static::Field<jint>("MIN_VALUE")];
    MAX = (*this)[Static::Field<jint>("MAX_VALUE")];

    hashCodeID = (*this)(Method<jint>("hashCode"));
    bitCountID = (*this)(Static::Method<jint>("bitCount", Args<jint>()));
  }

  jint hashCode() const {
    return (*this)[hashCodeID]();
  }

  jint bitCount(jint value) const {
    return (*this)[bitCountID](value);
  }

  jint max() const { return MAX; }
  jint min() const { return MIN; }

  private: jint MAX, MIN;

  private: Method<jint>::ID hashCodeID;
  private: Static::Method<jint>::ID bitCountID;
};

void UsingIntegerCodeSnippet(JNIEnv *jenv, jobject jinteger) {
  Integer integer(jenv, jinteger);
  jint bits = integer.bitCount(0xF);
  jint hash = integer.hashCode();
  jint max = integer.max();
  jint min = integer.min();
}

p. 
